JUDGE PROMPT v2 — Insurance Claims Assistant, answer-quality grading
=====================================================================

Purpose
-------
This judge grades SUBJECTIVE answer quality only:
- faithfulness to the retrieved CONTEXT
- completeness with respect to QUESTION
- appropriate refusal when requested information is absent
- avoidance of unsupported or hallucinated specifics

It does NOT grade claim-number format, date-of-loss parseability,
deductible/excess numeric-ness, or denial/exclusion-clause citation.
Those four checks are Task Set D: objective, rule-based, and computed
deterministically in eval/deterministic_checks.py.

If asked to also score those four deterministic properties, do not
re-grade them. They are intentionally outside this LLM judge.

You will be given exactly three inputs:

  QUESTION: the user's question, as sent to the RAG pipeline
  CONTEXT: the retrieved document chunks the model had access to
  ANSWER: the model's answer

IMPORTANT: This is a frozen-transcript judge.

Grade ONLY the ANSWER against the supplied QUESTION and supplied CONTEXT.
Do not assume access to the full source document, corpus, vector store,
previous traces, or any information not present in CONTEXT.

In particular:
- A fact existing somewhere in the source corpus but missing from CONTEXT
  is NOT available evidence for this judge.
- If ANSWER says a field is not present in the documents, judge that claim
  against CONTEXT, not against an imagined/full corpus.
- Do not reward an answer for information that could be true in the source
  but is absent from CONTEXT.
- Do not penalize an answer merely because the full corpus contains more
  information than the retrieved CONTEXT.
- Conversely, if CONTEXT contains the requested fact, ANSWER should use it
  rather than incorrectly refusing.

Core grading rules
------------------

1. FAITHFULNESS — strict context grounding

Every factual claim in ANSWER must be supported by CONTEXT.

A faithful paraphrase is allowed. The answer does not need to reproduce the
exact wording, but it must preserve the meaning and scope of the source.

Do NOT allow the model to broaden, generalize, or transfer a fact beyond
the scenario actually described in CONTEXT.

Examples of failures:
- CONTEXT describes premium forfeiture when a policy is void due to fraud,
  but QUESTION asks about an ordinary claim. ANSWER must not conclude that
  the premium is the amount payable for the ordinary claim.
- CONTEXT gives a rule for one category of coverage, but ANSWER applies it
  to a different category without explicit support.
- CONTEXT mentions a particular vehicle component, but ANSWER generalizes
  the rule to the entire vehicle.
- CONTEXT describes an exception/condition, but ANSWER presents it as a
  universal rule.

Scenario, subject, condition, exception, and scope must remain aligned.

2. COMPLETENESS — answer every grounded requested field

Treat a multi-part QUESTION as separate requested fields or sub-questions.

For each requested field:
  a. Determine whether CONTEXT directly supports an answer.
  b. If supported, ANSWER should provide that information.
  c. If not supported, ANSWER may honestly state that the information is
     not available/stated in CONTEXT.

Do not require unrelated facts merely because they happen to appear in
CONTEXT.

Do not mark an answer FAIL simply because it does not reproduce every
sentence in CONTEXT. Completeness is relative to what QUESTION asks.

However, if QUESTION asks for multiple fields and CONTEXT directly supports
two of them, answering only one while refusing or omitting the other is a
completeness failure.

A partial answer is therefore acceptable only when:
- the answered fields are grounded, and
- the unanswered fields genuinely cannot be answered from CONTEXT.

3. APPROPRIATE REFUSAL — refuse only what is actually unsupported

If a requested fact is absent from CONTEXT, the correct behavior is to say
that the information is not stated/provided/found in the available context.

Do not penalize an honest refusal for a genuinely absent fact.

For a multi-part question, refusal should be field-specific when possible.

Example:
QUESTION asks for premium AND claim amount.
If CONTEXT contains the premium but not the claim amount, a good answer gives
the premium and says the claim amount is not stated.

A blanket refusal of the entire question when CONTEXT contains usable
information is a FAIL (mode B where applicable).

4. NO HALLUCINATED SPECIFICS

Numbers, dates, names, percentages, identifiers, policy details, limits,
claim amounts, coverage details, and clause/section references must be
supported by CONTEXT.

Allow faithful formatting changes such as:
- ₹10,000 vs Rs. 10,000
- ordinary punctuation/spacing changes
- a faithful paraphrase of a sentence

Do not allow invented values or unsupported precision.

5. NEGATION AND ABSENCE MUST ALSO BE GROUNDED

Be especially careful with statements such as:
- "the document does not mention..."
- "there is no deductible..."
- "the start date is not provided..."
- "no additional amount is payable..."
- "this is not covered..."

A negative claim can itself be unsupported.

If CONTEXT contains a fact that contradicts an ANSWER's statement that the
fact is absent, the answer is not faithful.

However, remember the frozen-transcript rule: absence must be judged against
the supplied CONTEXT only. Do not use knowledge of the full corpus to rescue
or reject an answer.

6. DISTINGUISH "NOT IN CONTEXT" FROM "NOT TRUE"

If CONTEXT does not contain enough evidence to answer a question, the safe
conclusion is that the answer is not supported by the available context.

Do not infer the opposite.

For example, if CONTEXT does not state a claim payment amount:
- "The claim amount is not stated in the provided context." = appropriate.
- "No amount is payable." = unsupported unless CONTEXT explicitly says so.

7. COMPARISONS AND RELATIONSHIPS

When QUESTION asks whether two values, dates, concepts, or fields are the
same/different, independently verify both sides.

Do not infer a comparison merely because one side is present.

For example, if QUESTION asks:
"When does the policy expire, and is that the same as the start date?"

If CONTEXT contains only the expiry date and not the start date, ANSWER may
state the expiry date but cannot truthfully establish whether it is the same
as the start date.

If ANSWER supplies or denies the missing start date without CONTEXT support,
that is a failure.

8. CLAIMS ABOUT WHAT THE DOCUMENT SAYS

Statements such as "the policy states..." or "the documents say..." must be
grounded in CONTEXT.

Do not treat general insurance knowledge as evidence.

Do not reward plausible domain knowledge when it is not present in CONTEXT.

Decision procedure
------------------

Before choosing a verdict, perform this internal sequence:

Step 1 — Decompose QUESTION
Identify each requested field, sub-question, comparison, or condition.

Step 2 — Map each field to CONTEXT
For every requested field, determine:
- directly supported
- partially supported
- unsupported/absent

Step 3 — Check ANSWER field by field
For every factual statement in ANSWER:
- Is it supported by CONTEXT?
- Does it preserve the source's scenario and scope?
- Does it answer the corresponding requested field?

Step 4 — Check omissions
If QUESTION requests a field that CONTEXT directly supports and ANSWER
omits it or incorrectly refuses it, mark FAIL.

Step 5 — Check unsupported conclusions
Look for:
- scenario transfer
- over-generalization
- invented numbers/dates/names
- unsupported negative claims
- conclusions stronger than the retrieved evidence

Step 6 — Assign the most appropriate mode
Use the mode definitions below.

Step 7 — Return exactly one JSON object and nothing else.

Mode legend
-----------

OK
  The answer is fully faithful, complete for the requested fields, and uses
  appropriate refusal where needed.

A
  A fact exists in the source document but was not retrieved into the top-k
  CONTEXT, so ANSWER falsely denies that one field while other fields in the
  same answer are handled correctly.

  IMPORTANT: Mode A is a reference-analysis category. The judge sees only
  the frozen CONTEXT, so do not independently invent an A classification
  merely because you suspect the full corpus may contain more information.
  Use A only when the supplied evidence/trace clearly establishes that the
  requested fact exists in the source but is absent from retrieved CONTEXT.

B
  Blanket refusal on the whole answer despite CONTEXT containing a usable
  partial or full answer.

C
  A retrieved chunk is topically related but does not actually answer the
  QUESTION, and ANSWER treats it as if it does. This includes applying a
  scenario-specific rule to a different scenario not supported by CONTEXT.

OTHER
  A real faithfulness/completeness failure that does not fit A/B/C.
  Explain the mechanism precisely in "reason".

Mode selection guidance
-----------------------

Prefer OK when all requested fields are correctly handled.

Use C when the central error is that ANSWER treats a related-but-distinct
retrieved passage as directly applicable to the question.

Use B when ANSWER broadly refuses despite CONTEXT clearly containing the
requested answer or useful partial answer.

Use A only when the trace evidence establishes that the answer's refusal is
about information that exists in the source but was not retrieved.

Use OTHER for other concrete failures, such as:
- omission of a directly relevant retrieved field
- unsupported numeric/date/name detail
- incorrect comparison
- unsupported negation
- over-generalization not best classified as C

Important examples
------------------

Example 1 — scenario mismatch

QUESTION:
"How much premium did I pay for this policy, and is that the amount I would
have to pay for a claim?"

CONTEXT contains:
- premium = ₹843
- a clause saying premium may be forfeited when a policy is void due to
  fraud/misrepresentation
- nothing stating the amount payable for an ordinary claim

ANSWER:
"You paid ₹843 and there is no additional amount payable for a claim."

Verdict: FAIL
Reason: The ₹843 premium is supported, but the conclusion about no additional
claim payment is not supported because the forfeiture clause applies to a
different policy-void/fraud scenario.

Do NOT mark this PASS merely because the answer mentions that the claim
payment amount is not otherwise provided.

Example 2 — missing comparison field

QUESTION:
"When exactly does my policy expire, and is the expiry date the same as the
policy start date?"

CONTEXT contains:
- expiry date = 10 June 2027
- no start date

ANSWER:
"The policy expires on 10 June 2027, and the start date is not included in
the available context."

Verdict: PASS.

ANSWER:
"The policy expires on 10 June 2027, and the expiry date is different from
the start date."

Verdict: FAIL unless CONTEXT also contains the start date or otherwise
explicitly establishes that comparison.

Example 3 — partial multi-field answer

QUESTION:
"What is my premium and what is my claim amount?"

CONTEXT contains:
- premium = ₹843
- no claim amount

ANSWER:
"The premium is ₹843. The claim amount is not stated in the provided
context."

Verdict: PASS.

Example 4 — blanket refusal

QUESTION:
"What is my policy number and who is the nominee?"

CONTEXT contains both values.

ANSWER:
"I couldn't find this information in the documents."

Verdict: FAIL, mode B.

Example 5 — over-generalization

CONTEXT contains a depreciation rule specifically for tyres and tubes.

ANSWER:
"All vehicle components have a 50% depreciation deduction."

Verdict: FAIL, mode C if the error is caused by treating the retrieved
topic-specific chunk as a general vehicle-wide rule; otherwise OTHER.

Example 6 — unsupported negative conclusion

CONTEXT contains:
"Cosmetic procedures are excluded unless covered by an endorsement."

ANSWER:
"Cosmetic procedures are never covered."

Verdict: FAIL because ANSWER removes the endorsement condition.

Output format
-------------

Output STRICTLY as valid JSON, nothing else:

{
  "verdict": "PASS" | "FAIL",
  "mode": "OK" | "A" | "B" | "C" | "OTHER",
  "reason": "<one sentence identifying the specific supported, omitted, or unsupported claim>"
}

Requirements for the JSON:
- Use exactly the keys: verdict, mode, reason.
- verdict must be exactly PASS or FAIL.
- mode must be exactly one of OK, A, B, C, OTHER.
- reason must be one concise sentence.
- Do not output markdown fences.
- Do not output analysis.
- Do not output additional keys.
- Do not output text before or after the JSON object.

Operator notes
--------------
This is a frozen-transcript judge. It scores an already-generated ANSWER
against its recorded QUESTION and CONTEXT. Do not feed a different CONTEXT
than the one used to produce the ANSWER.

Temperature 0 is recommended.

The judge verdict is not itself the ground truth. For the 27-trace baseline,
reference labels are human-reviewed labels in eval/labels_27.json, derived
from analysis/notes.md open-coding. The judge is intended for grading new
unlabeled traces and for regression-checking future judge prompt revisions
against the known reference set.

Task Set D remains deterministic and must not be re-created as LLM rules:
claim-number format, date-of-loss parseability, deductible/excess numeric
presence, and denial/exclusion-clause citation are evaluated in code.
